---
layout: post
title: About
display_title: About Me
index: 2
class: page blog post
---

*This page will house my (informal) autobiography – my CV can be found right
below it, and my online profiles etc. can be found on the home page.*

*N.B. It is also migrated from my two-years old blog. Will be updated soon!*

My name is Petar Veličković and I was born on 10th of November 1993, in
Belgrade, Serbia.

I have been interested in science for as long as I can remember. It all started
out naïvely, with learning simple things such as elementary mathematics and
reading, but soon resulted in reading through my very first encyclopædia. It was
a time where I was rather undirected in my interests, and just appreciated
learning as much as I can about everything. Another thing which kept my
interests for a long while are video games — particularly on the classic
PlayStation One, which I had since 1999 and is still operational; a quality
rarely found in consoles nowadays!

In 2000 I have enrolled at “Žikica Jovanović Španac” elementary school that
afterwards changed its name to “Nadežda Petrović”. My excellent first-year
grades combined with the fact I read through Nat Gertler’s Easy PCs book several
times have successfully convinced my parents to buy my first PC for me in
December of the same year, despite the uncertain financial situation of the
time. Of course, my initial experiences with the PC were tightly bound to
playing video games, however I have soon after started to comprehensively learn
as much as I could about the slightly more useful aspects – starting with
learning how to use all the programs in the Microsoft Office 2000 package. When
I was ten years old I decided to take a step into the unknown, and got my first
programming book – Visual Basic 5.0 Step by Step by Michael Halvorson. What
started as yet another act of curiosity has completely captivated me, and from
that moment on I was sure that this is the ultimate direction I want my studies
to go in.

However, there were no opportunities to learn programming at my then-school, so
I have sticked with personal tinkering for a while, and in the meantime I have
discovered mathematics competitions organised by the Mathematical Society of
Serbia, and a year later its equivalent for physics. It was at a regional
physics competition in 2006 that I first noticed a competitor with “Matematička
gimnazija” (High school of mathematics) as his representing school. Initially
confused, I later figured out that a brand new experimental programme had begun
in this notorious high school, to bring in talented students as early as the 7th
year of elementary school. This seemed like a perfect opportunity for me, so I
decided to try my chances and I’ve successfully passed the admission exam.
Although my initial showings were poor (especially in mathematics subjects where
I was way behind on what some of my classmates were able to do), I was able to
compose myself and ultimately complete both years in this experimental class
with a perfect grade average. As a result I was awarded the Diploma of Vuk. What
I’d like to call my greatest two achievements of those two years were the vast
improvements in my coding skills (I had worked in the Pascal programming
language then and completed a course on C# and SQL), which resulted in me
winning the 3rd prize at the Serbian Junior Olympiad in Informatics; and the
fact I was able to enrol in the high-school itself effortlessly.

My next four years of studies were rather eventful; my school has given me ample
opportunity to learn a lot of useful concepts, I’ve broadened my coding skills
(mostly by learning Prolog and C++ which is now my language of choice), started
delving into algorithm theory (greatly thanks to the wonderful Introduction to
Algorithms by CLRS), and achieved successes at highschool competitions (I made
several appearances at the national level in both mathematics and physics, and
won a few awards from informatics – my highest ranking being a 3rd prize at the
Serbian Olympiad in Informatics – as well as participated in the finals of the
5th Bubble Cup competition organised by Microsoft Development Center Serbia).
The fourth and final year was the most eventful, because of a variety of
important events. Reverse-chronologically, I have managed to gain the
high-school Diploma of Vuk after completing all four years with perfect grades
in all subjects and performing excellently on the final Calculus and Algebra
exam, as well as completing a successful graduation project using C# -
“Development of a software emulator for the GameBoy console”, which was
commended by the school as the best project in the area of informatics of the
year. These successes were vital to my choosing as one of the ten nominees for
the student of the generation. However my most vital achievement actually
occurred earlier in the year (hence why I said reverse-chronologically).

It was somewhere around my second year that I first considered completing my
university degree abroad. However I wasn’t sure about it until late in the third
year, when I decided on the UK as my preferred country and the prestigious
Trinity College of University of Cambridge as my main choice. The main factors
to this decision were its excellent reputation, the amount of students from my
school that went on to study there, and the opportunity of getting full
scholarships. Finally in the fourth year I have sent out my applications: apart
from Cambridge, my choices were the universities in Bristol, Sheffield,
Southampton and Warwick. After having attended interviews at Cambridge and
Bristol, all of my choice universities have replied to me with good news – every
one of them has given me a conditional offer to study Computer Science with
them. However, the choice was easily made, as I got news from Trinity in May
about successfully obtaining full funding for my tuition; hence, along with five
other Serbian students in my generation, I have started attending lectures at
this incredible town.

I am currently bringing my second year of studies to a close. Throughout the
very eventful two years, I was able to broaden my views on computer science
vastly, meet a lot of people from many backgrounds, and even get an early offer
to do some research! I worked as a summer intern at Microsoft Development Center
Serbia's SQL Server team last year, where I contributed to a highly commended
project, and this year I've secured a place as an undergraduate researcher
within the Cambridge Computer Laboratory's Computer Architecture Group.  Apart
from programming, my main hobbies are video-gaming and video editing. I am an
extreme audiophile, whose music interests span pretty much all genres, and in
general a fan of fine arts – particularly paintings. I am a fluent
english-speaker. I currently use Mac OS X and Linux.

[Curriculum Vitae](/PetarV-CurriculumVitae.pdf) (PDF).
